RELEASING.md, before:

# Releasing Voxclip

This document is for maintainers and release engineers.

## Source-of-truth files

- Release workflow: `.github/workflows/release.yml`
- CI validation workflow: `.github/workflows/ci.yml`
- GoReleaser config: `.goreleaser.yml`
- Whisper staging details: `packaging/whisper/README.md`
- User-facing CLI docs: `README.md`

## Release-related commands

Use these commands to validate release setup locally:

```bash
task whisper:build
task release:check
task release:dry
```

Equivalent GoReleaser commands:

```bash
goreleaser check
goreleaser release --snapshot --clean
```

## Bundled whisper binaries

Before packaging, platform-specific whisper binaries must be staged under `packaging/whisper/...`.

For exact expected paths and host-local staging instructions, see `packaging/whisper/README.md`.

Release archives include the staged binary as:

```text
libexec/whisper/whisper-cli
```

## GitHub Actions release flow

`.github/workflows/release.yml` runs on version tags (`v*`) and manual dispatch.

The workflow builds and stages `whisper-cli` for:

- `linux/amd64`
- `linux/arm64`
- `darwin/amd64`
- `darwin/arm64`

It then runs GoReleaser to publish release archives and `checksums.txt`.

Commit message:

docs: add user-facing changelog and policy guidance

RELEASING.md, after:

# Releasing Voxclip

This document is for maintainers and release engineers.

## Source-of-truth files

- Release workflow: `.github/workflows/release.yml`
- CI validation workflow: `.github/workflows/ci.yml`
- GoReleaser config: `.goreleaser.yml`
- Changelog and release notes: `CHANGELOG.md`
- Whisper staging details: `packaging/whisper/README.md`
- User-facing CLI docs: `README.md`

## Release-related commands

Use these commands to validate release setup locally:

```bash
task whisper:build
task release:check
task release:dry
```

Equivalent GoReleaser commands:

```bash
goreleaser check
goreleaser release --snapshot --clean
```

## Changelog policy

`CHANGELOG.md` is user-facing release notes.

- Keep entries focused on CLI behavior, flags, workflows, installation UX, and compatibility notes.
- Do not list internal-only refactors, CI plumbing, or dependency bumps unless users are affected.
- Keep upcoming changes under `## [Unreleased]` and move them into a dated version section when tagging a release.

## Bundled whisper binaries

Before packaging, platform-specific whisper binaries must be staged under `packaging/whisper/...`.

For exact expected paths and host-local staging instructions, see `packaging/whisper/README.md`.

Release archives include the staged binary as:

```text
libexec/whisper/whisper-cli
```

## GitHub Actions release flow

`.github/workflows/release.yml` runs on version tags (`v*`) and manual dispatch.

The workflow builds and stages `whisper-cli` for:

- `linux/amd64`
- `linux/arm64`
- `darwin/amd64`
- `darwin/arm64`

It then runs GoReleaser to publish release archives and `checksums.txt`.
